well howdy there internet people it's
beau again
so today we're going to talk about a
common statement something i hear a lot
and it's coming up a whole lot right now
and i want to get to the the meat of the
the statement see first off if it's
true and second off
even if it is true does that mean that
it's
bad okay
so the statement we've all heard it
there's no difference between
republicans and democrats
and on many levels that's true
it is on many levels that is a true
statement
they're both right on the international
spectrum they're both right
um they are
both pro corporate interests by and
large
they're both very likely
to engage in militaristic operations
they're likely to intervene in other
countries there's a whole lot of things
about them
that are the same but are they really
exactly the same no of course not
there are policy differences you know
notable ones would be
immigration climate change which is like
kind of super important
um tons there are tons
of actual differences in policy
but let's pretend that those don't exist
let's pretend for the sake of argument
that there is no difference
in policy it's just the way they frame
things
because that would be the only
alternative is that democrats put a
kindler gentler face on the exact same
policies
as their republican counterparts i
understand that this isn't true but
we're accepting this falsity as fact
right now
because i want to demonstrate something
okay so it's exactly the same
take an issue let's take
those locations all over the world where
the united states military has made
children
afraid of the sky
let's take that for example and let's
say the only difference
is a rhetoric the way they talk about it
the republican party says hey it's war
accidents happen no big deal
move on better them than me
and the democratic party says it's a
regrettable consequence
of our intervention there
neither one of these statements are
going to save the kid that gets ripped
apart
six days from now but one of them
might save the kid that's going to get
ripped apart six years from now
because that statement it's regrettable
it's something that shouldn't happen
that might change thought
i've talked about it before on this
channel to change society you don't have
to change the law
you have to change thought if you change
thought
laws will change
so that rhetoric alone
may be the starting point to get to a
better place
and if you're one of the people that
says this that democrats and republicans
are exactly the same
you're a radical of some sort you have
to be otherwise you wouldn't be saying
that
you would have your chosen political
party and you would be backing them
you're radical you want deep systemic
change you want something better
you're talking about changing the world
it's not going to happen overnight
you have to have long-term strategic
thought
and i know right now there's somebody
saying empty words don't mean anything
you know speaking in and of itself
i guess not but sometimes a calling to
speak
is a vocation of agony
but we must speak
what law did martin luther king write
speech rhetoric that is designed to
influence
thought is probably a lot more valuable
than you think
when it comes to achieving long-term
systemic change
because that's not accomplished by law
that's accomplished by shifting the way
people view the world
so even if you just accept
that there is no meaningful difference
in policy between democrats and
republicans
you must acknowledge there's a
difference in the rhetoric
and that rhetoric alone may be valuable
is valuable because those people
who would never say that democrats and
republicans are the same
they hear that they hear
that children being afraid of the sky
is regrettable
they hear that people who cross an
imaginary line on a map
deserve human rights
these are ideas that need to be
reinforced through speech because they
aren't givens in this country
so even if it's just rhetoric it is
rhetoric that gets carried across
those mainstream networks it's rhetoric
that influences millions
it's rhetoric that eventually
can save lives
even if you accept the idea that they
are exactly the same
you know their speech is different
if you are a radical if you want deep
systemic change
if you want to open up those gates and
free other people
you have to think long term your goal
is probably not going to be accomplished
in your lifetime
you have to think beyond that you may
just be able to file one notch on that
key that's going to open the gate
before your time is up
but somebody else can come along and
file the next one
if you want that deep change if you want
to build a society
where everybody gets a fair shake where
there is liberty and justice for all
regardless where you live or what you
look like
it's not happening overnight saying that
democrats and republicans are exactly
the same
it doesn't help your cause
because it comes across as an excuse
to not get involved that's how it comes
across
it doesn't come across as oh i have a
deep understanding of politics
because if you did you would understand
that the rhetoric alone is worth
something
anyway it's just a thought y'all have a
good day